John Lawrence.
I'm planning an exhibition called By the Hand of a Woman.
It thrives in illuminations and the provenance are manuscripts delicious by women for women.
Clear provenance, no leaving.
This came out as a result of a lecture at Indiana.
And I had a group of very scholarly library science people that probably earned their masters in the 70s.
Very prim, proper, the old guard library people.
I mean, very civilized, intellectual, lovely movie.
Pardon me?
I wrote their names down, and I'm giving this call.
Yeah, that time.
And I mentioned, I held up this manuscript, it's a Carmelite manuscript, and I made an off remark.
Now these are very prim and proper, ladies, okay?
I'm very chink to you.
And say, I think it would be really nice if someone would do an exhibition of works by women for women.
And they turned in, as Rush Limbaugh would call Feminots, and said, where's it at?
I go, whoa, get an idea.
So they jumped me after the lecture and said, are you going to do that?
Are you going to do that?
I said, I don't know if I can do it.
I said, works by women are very rare in this period.
The best I will do, if you will take charge of logistics, and as this is the planning stage, I said, I will see what I can do.
So I went to all the top book dealers in the world, and I said, I'd like works by women.
And they go, why?
OK, I'm going to do an exhibition by women.
I go, why?
So I hold up the almighty dollar a pound, as it may be.
Now, that shark smells of blood.
But then they start, look, they have nothing.
So I have them scouring around.
And I find pieces and institutional questions.
I go home and do an inventory what I have.
Bucks it off.
One guy comes back and says, as far as I know, you have the largest collection of what's by women in a private collection.
Certainly east of the Mississippi.
And I said, pardon me, did you say works?
Are you talking about manuscripts?
I'm talking about illuminations and manuscripts, scribings.
But are these strictly by women?
These are very rarely signed.
Well, you get that by, this is where the book breaking comes in, where they have the original book, which is clearly identified as to monastery.
In the case of the antiphonal of Marguerite de Bocqueville, she signed it.
Three times she signed it in an initial.
I mean, it was a very arrogant act for a Renaissance woman to do, and I'm being facetious here.
So I'd been involved with Marguerite Bacovall's Antipano when it was intact.
It was purchased at Christie's, I think, for $25,000.
I'm not clear on that.
And I was there with a book breaker who showed it to me.
And that was magnificent, the whole book.
And it was a magnificent book.
And I said, you can't, Tim.
I said, how much do you want for the book?
Unbroken.
He said, pay $25,000 for it.
I want $45,000 for it.
I said, OK.
I go home.
My wife, here we go with the home equity loan.
Get $45,000 certified check.
Turn around.
Right back to his full gallery, 45,000, where's the book?
He said, you're not going to get it.
He said, I want 100,000 for now.
I said, what are you going to do with it?
I knew he was going to do it.
He's going to break it.
He opens up, there's seven miniatures in it.
He said, these miniatures will retail as a minimum.
8,000, 9,000 articles.
Is he an American bookseller?
Yeah, American bookseller.
Do we know who it is?
Oh, I know who it is.
I'll talk to you about that privately.
I mean, do I know who it is?
Yeah, you know his name when I drop it.
We all know.
Yeah, it's kind of a nefarious name.
And I think quite a lot of you all know that the business is doing this.
Yeah, well, not publicly.
I mean, when you put a mouse in a box with a hungry cat, what do you think is going to happen?
He then says, look at these initials.
Marguerite de Bocavel had hired Louis Bacard, a Renaissance artist, to do the miniatures.
She directed the themes, and she directed the initials.
Then she did over 300 sketches, illuminations herself of various themes, including what looks like a portrait of her sister, Patton Hoban.
She had the audacity to sign the book,
She was a Carthusian nut, and this is completely opposite.
So I told him, I said, you can't break this book.
He said, this book is worth a million dollars, book.
He said, you know how this works.
And I said, that's the problem.
I said, I'm warning you, don't do this.
He went from $45,000 to a million, right?
Pardon me?
He went from $45,000 to a million in a matter of hours, basically.
He thought.
He thought he did.
Yeah, and that's the way this works.
So this is the same guy who wanted to break a Tyndale Bible, by the way.
Is this Graham we're talking about?
Pardon me?
Is this Graham the Raider?
No.
He's got his own little area.
So we know who we're not talking about.
So I said to him, I want to buy as many of the miniatures as I can.
Well, he wants the national deficits.
And he doesn't want to give them to me because he knows that I'm going to use them.
They're not going to disappear to some obscure private collection.
So he sells them off to other manuscript dealers.
So he did great for that.
Oh, broke it apart.
Cut it apart.
That's horrible.
Well, these guys are always desperate for cash in one way or another.
They'll make a fortune on one book and go out and do something stupid or another.
Times get hard.
I go to one of the manuscript dealers who has the main miniature.
It's a white woman of Jerusalem.
Very feministy, disguised as the ascension.
It is even the text.
Rise up, ye daughters of Jerusalem.
Very feministy.
So times are hard.
I get this miniature for like $6,000, which is really a bargain.
He lets go of a number of the smaller miniatures, or the smaller leaves.
I'd already collected as many of her individual leaves as I could find.
They were selling, plain leaves were selling for $400 a cup.
Ones with initials, beautiful initials, were $600.
Multiple initials, $1,200.
You can do the math.
You know, you have 100-some leaves, you know, this number.
So I find the other book dealer has two of her signatures.
He needs money quick, so he sells them to me for like 900 hours each.
Is this the same guy?
No, different guy.
The book breaker has subcontracted his whole sale piece out to people.
So I buy both of those.
Then he finds out I'm really interested in this, and he says, by the way, I've got one that's dated.
in the initial 1539 how much do you want because i want 900 i said okay that's fine i buy it for you five friends and by the way i get five of your carmelite leaves on a assignment as i threw those in with the deal i think this is what you deal with these guys i mean you know it's like sharks nipping at each other if you don't nip back they're not going to respect you so
I have to keep this business of this women's exhibition quiet because I know what it's going to do.
It's going to force the price at least through the roof.
So I go out and acquire all the Carmelite, which was a large antiphonal, the Carmelite Order.
It was scribed on paper, beautiful hand-leaf paper, illuminated.
One of the illuminations looks like a quilt.
And in the middle of the book,
which is very rare, are two large leaves and a very good yet very derivative form of lack of instructions by a woman to a woman on how to notate and rubricate music.
First of all, it's in the middle of a book, which is rare for that to happen, accepted by the women.
I said, what do you want for those?
And he says, 150 each.
I said, I've got to be honest with you.
Do you know what those are?
No, they're from the Carmelite.
This one guy can read a little bit of Latin.
Most of them can't read any Latin.
I said, do you know what the temple is?
You know what it says?
He said, no, I don't know the first word, which is a derivative to give advice.
I said, it's instructions.
I said, I'll buy both of them.
I'll buy every piece of Carmelite you have, because that book was intact.
So what we're doing in the exhibition is only including leaves and have a 100% clear provenance.
And Jim Merrill from Princeton authenticated a miniature I had, which was done by the four players.
Very beautiful miniature.
Next thing I know,
I hear from the McMaster University people in Hamilton, and they're doing, they have a website of Medieval Women.
They have a television series.
I said, do you want to collaborate with us?
Well, what do we need to do?
I said, I want you to do, this is going to be an educational exhibition.
I want you to do the brochures.
I want you to do the extraneous material.
It's not just an art exhibition.
It's a writing, painting, history of the women, motivation of women exhibition.
She said...
We negotiate.
Let me ask you, do you know the name Jeffrey Hamburger, who's now at Harvard, and kind of specializes in women with medieval manuscripts?
I've never met him.
I know the name.
He used to teach at Obama.
He was in Eric's position.
If you could connect me.
I've heard the name.
I could do that.
I'm sure Eric Engels teaches Medieval in our Art History department on Jeffrey Hamburger.
As I understand it from Eric, this was really his specialty, because I mentioned to Eric
that you were working on this medieval manuscript by women.
And then he said, oh, that's Jeffrey's thing.
Well, what he could do is help me locate pieces in collections that people may want to loan out.
There's the, well, the book you're going to have, The Dominican Reverie, that was all done by women, five different women, from cover to cover.
And that was very close to being broken.
I think I told you that before I inquired that.
I'm the same guy.
Where is the exhibition going to be?
What's going to open at the Shelley Museum in Harmony, Indiana, it's going to go to McMaster in Canada, and then after that, I'm keeping it open to find out what Oberlin wants to do.
It's not going to go to Northern Ohio.
It's going to go to the East Coast.
And I'm falling out of it.
I'm letting the women scholars take over.
They are really great.
They're rabid.
They really love this.
They're on a mission.
And I'm completely off of it.
I'm putting the pieces together.
I'm doing the legwork with the book dealers.
and letting them do the scholarship.
You know, it's not going to be the most impressive thing, you see, but it's very unusual now.
Well, it's a start.
I talked to Sandra Hindman, who is one of the top five now.
I said, Sandra, and she's the chair of the Art History Department of Northwestern.
She's also a manuscript.
I said, do you have any work by women?
She said, no.
Seconds of 19th century illuminations by women.
So why not?
So we're going from New Harmony, Indiana.
I'd say we're going to be here a while.
In New Harmony, Indiana, they're going to bring in Jane Owen, Jane Owen,
very rare
Early American fracture done by the harmonists.
Jane Owen, who was behind us in New Harmony, never approached her.
New Harmony was the place I went for years.
I always wanted to meet her, and one of the scholars approached her, and she's really great on that.
She said, well, I'm going to contact the historic New Harmony, and contact the people at the Pennsylvania.
And so we do loan us your fracture, which is quite, you know, no one just does that.
So we'll loan it for this exhibition.
And whether they allow it to follow the exhibitions in their story, but they sent it to, they said, yeah, it'll be there in New Harmony.
And so we're putting together something that's 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th century.
And then I'm going to have one of the people look at some 20th century Illuminates that are women.
So the whole idea is to put together, but where I'm coming around the circle to tell Nick is, I'm going to tell the story.
They want to know about the Backevel thing, which has been tremendously painful to me, about who broke this book.
I mean, no one's ever asked me, Nick, no one ever asked me, who writes these books?
I mean, I give lectures, I'm getting this lately.
Who wrote this book?
Your old book.
I can't mention its name, but you can until my attorney clears it.
You know it.
You've attended anything?
Yeah, yeah.
Who lives in this area?
He lives in Northern, Ohio.
In the Akron area?
Mm-hmm.
He's a bookseller.
His first name wouldn't be Bruce, would it?
Nancy James.
Oh, thank God.
That's amazing.
Are you talking about Bruce Berrini?
Did I say that name?
You'll find a lot of information real quick.
I thought you had a closer association.
You have no close association with these people.
You have a symbionic relationship with all of these people, as Nick will tell you.
If you want access to the material,
you have to be very pragmatic and therefore you know these people could shut me down in a moment i mean it's a closed group and it comes to medieval books renaissance books of five people in the world and they're all interconnected and at a moment they can shut shut me down i mean they could they could do it in a moment and i don't think it'll happen
Because I'm doing a lot of exhibitions and lectures.
I would shut you down in what respect?
Well, if they decided I was a threat to their business, they would shut me down.
If you chose book breaking, if you kind of attack them on the issue of book breaking... Well, I've already gotten one phone call after I did a speech in Philadelphia.
You know what you need, Don?
You need somebody who is not dependent on you.
Well, you know, that's the problem.
Well, I do it, you know.
I name names.
Well, I understand that.
I understand you do, but we'll have to talk about that, and we'll have to back it up.
You have to be very careful about what you're saying.
I have to be very careful, but accept the fact that I've been around this so long, I don't even know where they're footnotes in journals.
I understand that I'm very careful with what I do, too.
I'm the guy who writes the books, and if there are any lawsuits, they're into me.
Minor old guard manuscript dealers who absolutely hate some of the big names.
You have two groups in it.
You have this group that's extremely ethical, which has died out.
The whole dog?
And actually, their prices on the leaves are realistic.
And then you have the group that came in in the 80s and the 90s that built their business.
The top five now are Farini.
Well, I would say the top five are Farini,
Sam Fogg in London.
Sam Fogg?
Sam Fogg.
F-O-G-G.
That's where this shipment was coming from today.
Now, we're not talking about breakers.
We're talking about dealers.
But, you know, the question you always have to ask, Nick, is where's the line between and how did they get there?
You're talking Jorn Gunther in Germany.
Yes, yes, I have.
He has to be one of the leading guys, wouldn't you think?
I write about him in this new book.
I don't know how leading he is.
His name has never hit my radar.
Read the chapter.
I mean, I write about him in the new book.
I will, but his name has never hit.
He really doesn't sell that much in the States.
That's why he doesn't.
He says he has 35 customers in the world.
Well, then that's probably why I've heard him.
This was who again?
Tenture.
Yeah, but I've heard the name.
Yeah, who started out in Bavaria, and he's now in Switzerland.
What I'll do is I'll take a look at that.
Run his name.
He's got a website.
Take a look at his website.
Read what I have to write about him in the book.
John, it sounded like from the description of that that he was selling complete medieval manuscript.
He was not breaking that at all.
Totally high-end.
Absolutely.
He looks for things that are really special.
And as Dick was describing it, he kind of falls in love with these things.
And then he goes out to his small group of people and convinces them to fall in love with it.
And then they'll pay the big money.
So he's a salesperson.
Extraordinary.
Catalog.
He's got a website.
Go take a look at his website.
Just do a search, Google search.
I'm going to run his name to two of these people to see if they bought things from him.
or if he refused to sell for them two of which people two of the two of the big five i started to name oh just drop his name and see did you ever get anything from him i don't think he sells it i don't think he has this yeah well i want to find out
He's got 30 people who are enormously wealthy and who collect.
And that's what he does.
You know, I mean, like Conrad Black.
What does Conrad Black know about him?
Nothing.
No, he doesn't like the appearances.
Yeah, but I mean, the guy's got the money.
What do any of these guys know about a precious art in the 80s and early 90s?
I mean,
Here's my $40 million impression of art.
Here's my $40 million Monet.
Isn't it beautiful?
That's what's happening with medieval books.
Here's my 14th century... I'm writing about this in that chapter I was talking about in this book.
John Wendell says... Is this your new book?
Yeah, the big book.
The little one.
I don't know if I really...
I don't care who they are.
And I don't want the Christie's to suffer these.
Because frankly, you know, they're just options.
I mean, that's where the book breakers go.
Talk a bit about the book breakers.
I mean, is this something that's new?
It's not new.
It goes back to the 20th century.
I didn't think we were doing it anymore, so we're doing it again.
That's what's been unique about it.
I mean, doing it, it was feeding time in the 80s and 90s.
I mean, books of ours, Boston University had a big sale.
I gave a talk which was very controversial on what I called institutionalized co-conspirators and book breakers.
And I really stepped on a nerve
And I had my facts straight, so they were in a hard position.
I traced several books, including the Hildensei book, which you've seen.
And I got all the data on it.
And all the ex officio collection went through the institution to talk.
Boston University did, in the late 80s, a massive sale from their Institute for Bibles.
Now, this isn't Howard Gottlieb who's doing this.
He's the one that's head of the special collections.
No.
Oh, no.
No, there was an Institute.
for biblical research or something.
Biblical?
Yeah.
And I'll have to get you the details.
I know it's a quick story.
I mean the exact title.
And they had a catalog.
I don't go with anything without the documentation.
Well, no, no, but I would.
I'm just giving you a new story.
And they had a massive catalog of books of ours, religious books they sold.
And the book breakers were there.
And they got involved in this.
And they bought these books.
And I don't know how many of these books of ours that they have.
Yeah.
Boston University did in their seat.
Well, here's what happened in the lecture.
One guy challenged me.
And he said, I want to go on record in saying that every of the institutions here, we hope that it is our time.
But I said, cut the crap.
You know who buys these books.
If you put a fat, hungry mouse...
a bat mouse in a box with a hungry cat.
What do you think is going to happen?
I said, you have a fiduciary responsibility to understand who gets this.
I said, you have a moral responsibility because I sat there and watched these books of ours being cut apart with the books.
Sold off.
Miniatures, calendars, the whole bit.
From your collection.
This is B.U., you're saying?
Pardon me?
And this is still B.U., you're talking about?
This is B.U., yeah.
This was when you were giving a talk?
Yeah, right.
In the Boston area?
No, that was an informal group in Philadelphia.
It was at the same time?
Yeah, and this guy happened to be there just any— This is pretty recently you gave this stuff?
About three years ago.
Did you have a text for it, or was it— No, no, very much my stuff is very impromptu.
But I have my facts, I mean, I have my notes.
And then the guy challenges me with a typical bureaucratic statement.
A BU guy?
Yeah.
No, this guy was from Getty Museum.
Oh.
Because I was about ready to drop a name on them.
And I said, my problem is you gauge in these million-dollar sales or they'll sell a lot of eight or nine, ten artifacts in return for X number of dollars.
and they'll have private purchasers or they'll put them on auction where they're private purchasers and i said it depending on how the deal works together then these books end up in the hand of a book breaker cuts them apart and the book breakers will cut these these old books apart and then they'll wholesale them the manuscript dealers now courageous advertises in his book phil courageous can we
Can we document a couple of these things?
Oh, yeah.
We can.
A couple of books that we can prove that came from such and such.
We can lead them all together.
Get the catalog it.
Did it go on a sale?
Then we'll follow the book.
This works for this book, unfortunately.
You mean the third one?
The big one.
The one that... We can get... We can get... How about the antiphono of Marguerite de Bocavalle?
Well, that's an impermanence of books.
Because...
I'm writing about the destruction of books in this next book.
We've got a guy in the art history department.
I love something like this.
This is good stuff.
What he talks about is what happens when a book is dispersed like it.
In terms of what you lose, in terms of being able to know about both the book... This is great English.
and everything surrounding it and you'd be an interesting person to talk with and he's been interested in in seeing if you could do a census of leaves and begin to put books back together virtually so that you're at least you could digitally put them put them back together the problem with that and i've tried to put leaves books back together the problem with that is they are sold on the open market
to people who have just enough money to buy them and not enough money to understand what they have.
And so they're hanging in homes.
And I told you the story of the medieval wills.
Well, there's no question, John.
I mean, I'm not going to argue with you about it.
Oh, no, no, I'm not, my friend.
I'm just telling you.
The dispersal, it's a crime.
It is a crime.
His idea is wonderful.
You know, what...
Oh, this is Eric Gables.
He teaches art history here at Oregon.
I-N-G-L-E-S?
I-N-G-L-I-S.
But I can get you in time.
Just so I know.
No, you're right.
And that's a wonderful thing.
And if we could do it.
It's just that they have made sure that a number of these leads go out into, for lack of another term, hands of people who have no idea what they are.
Remember the story of the medieval wills?
I told you the story of the medieval wills that were bound, and the guy sewed them off as chapter rules, and one of my interns translated them as wills.
It was a whole book of medieval wills.
They were hawked off, broken, sewed off.
The way I got him back, Nick, the guy who broke this book of medieval wills, he took out the miniature, which was a monastic order, he sold it to a private collector, and I know who it was, and then he cut the book off, and he put on him rules of the chapter.
He didn't even read it.
I mean, he can't read it.
One of my interns at the College of Worcester, summer project, had 12 of these hot shot Latin young men, great young men, calls me one night, he says, Professor Lawrence, and I'm not a professor, but he called me a
He said, I'm sure these are chapter rules.
And I go, Jason, what are they?
They're wills.
I said, makes sense.
So we did a research.
He did a paper on it, which I'll supply to you.
And a copy of the paper.
And it turns out this was a bound copy, bound book of wills.
And one of the wills we have says by the scribe,
And a copy of this shall be placed in the monastery's library.
So that's why they were there.
Because the monastery served as a probate court everywhere.
The guy had broken a book of wills.
Now he was selling these for $75 a lease.
And I bought every one I could find.
So I called him up and said, do you know what you took apart?
He goes, no, why?
You took apart a book of medieval wills.
And I think they would have sold for $2,000 each.
Now you do the math.
See, that's where you get out of it.
And he came back and later called me.
So he split the wills apart.
Oh, he split the whole book apart.
And he sold them off as rules of the chapter.
So the people bought these for $75 each.
But in effect, there were intact wills that were split apart in the whole process?
Yeah, where they were intact wills.
Not only were the wills split from the book, the wills were split apart.
That's what I'm saying.
The wills themselves were split.
So that if you don't have the full content of an individual will... See, none of these people can read the language.
No, and he hawked it off.
And I called him up, and I said, these would have went for two grand each.
And that really got him.
I mean, that depressed him for days.
But what I started to say about the Marguerite de Bacobala Tiffano, when the exhibition opens, I'm going to tell the story of her book.
And, you know, before then, hopefully I can tell the story to you.
But it will be in the exhibition, because the scholars want to know.
So I dropped the name to one of these guys.
I said, I'm going to have to start naming names, folks.
And he looked at me and he said, you're not.
I said, I got to.
I said, I can't stand up in front of a group of scholars and dance around.
And every one of these people,
is up to here in their arms in one way or the other courageous philip courageous out in oregon advertises in his book i do not break books no he doesn't he stands while the guy does it i mean he buys it from a book breaker no he doesn't do it himself but he goes in and he buys the leaves from a book book he really specializes in
entire books.
He's more, he's not a real big medieval manuscript dealer.
He's got a good reputation, actually.
He does have one.
But they have to make a living, Nick.
That's how they do this.
John, do you object to this on aesthetic grounds that you have a book that's moral grounds?
On moral grounds?
In terms of every kind of ground you can think of.
Well, first of all, I object to a beautiful intact book being taken apart for any reason.
And I object to
when the objective of taking a part has nothing to do with scholarship and what I call the democratization of history.
The democratization of history is this, like the book of hours I have, you can only enjoy two folios at once.
If you can, if individual collectors out there have a manuscript lead, they become interested in medieval history, renaissance history, writing books,
A lot of these people that I do buy leaves that come leave, take very great care of them.
They're archived rights.
They love them.
They're family heirlooms.
They document them.
I write valuations and descriptions.
So there's that.
But when you're talking a healthy book of hours, a pristine book of hours that's cut apart to accomplish that, that's wrong.
If you have a damaged book that was taken apart, part of it in the 19th century, 18th century, damaged, that's another story.
I've got a book of hours.
that has about 100 leaves in it.
The calendars are gone.
The miniatures are gone.
It was re-sewn in the 60s very badly to put it in a new binding upside down.
I haven't taken that book apart.
I have it.
You know, it's a matter of degree.
There's no difference between what he's talking about and what Baker's talking about with those newspapers coming from the British Library that he chopped up for birthday parties.
With Baker's style, that's a whole other thing.
It's really true that when you film that you lose, with certain thinkers, you lose
an ability to know and understand what that artifact is reflecting.
So with the newspapers, all of those color illustrations, those incredible color illustrations in the early 20th century newspapers, that's just all lost.
I tell a story in the book.
Here, the interesting thing from what Eric was telling me is that when a book is broken like that,
what you lose in terms of your ability to then both understand the book but understand the period and understand the whole culture that it's coming from because you there are certain things that just don't make sense unless you have the whole thing the paratextual elements of the book the whole book as artifact matters it creates something that's easier with synergy you know when i have my collection i still have the prices on it it's where some of these books
people, and I like to call book people, book breakers, will take a leaf and then cut the leaf into squares.
and hawk them off at $25 a square.
Calligraphy shows.
Here is a 12th century cistercen leaf.
Those things retail for like $2,000, but it's fine cistercen script, fine cistercen vellum on parchment.
There is.
Someone cut one of these apart and was hawking them off at $50 a whack.
So now they're not only dividing books, they're dividing links.
Now that has stopped because I said, I told them all that we're doing it, I said, I'm going to really drop a dime on you publicly.
And some of you got, you're trying to sell this.
Now that may sound to you, Nick, like a form of, what is pressure?
Nothing works in a vacuum.
I said, this is going to stop.
I said, it's going to stop now.
I said, I'm going to start talking about this.
And I've got, here I got, I got what you did.
I got the, I got a copy of the, I got a sisterly original book.
I said, you're in trouble.
I said, so you'll cut it now.
You'll cut it today.
I said, I want to see none of this stuff on your market again.
They didn't argue with me.
now i'm not what i'm trying to do give it an exact ebay to see if they stuck them up there no they won't do ebay they don't trust the people there is something on ebay for sale now though but there's i printed i printed it off i have it back in my office there's a bookseller about who's selling bits and pieces of old books he wants to get out of the business apparently
So what's the keyword search?
How would I find that?
I think Leapbook would probably do it, but I have it.
I printed it off because it's just been a big discussion the last couple of days.
It would be very interesting, Nick, what this guy would say to you why he's doing this.
Because I was telling Ray it's gone into the printed box.
The Johannes Mauritius, the Gutenberg of Belgium, and I have an entire missile.
One of these guys bought a processional of his, hacked it apart.
I mean, they've been doing that for years with the Gutenberg Bible.
They leaked books.
You can buy pieces of an accident page.
We've got a few things like that.
That's how things arrive.
I have noticed with the Gutenberg, though, the leaves that were taken out years ago.
They haven't been doing it.
that now they won't touch them because they're too well known they're radioactive because they have too many questions the Tyndale bible one of these guys called me to dinner when I get a Tyndale bible paid a half a million dollars this is four years ago three years ago he shows it to me and I'm looking it's very pristine it's completely extant it's a complete Tyndale and there's 170 of them more than in Gutenberg and uh
He's showing it to me, and we're having dinner, and we're having dinner at his house, and they pour more wine, and I said, what's the pitch?
He said, well, I got an idea.
He said, I paid a half a million for this book, and if we cut this book apart,
No, she used the word we.
He said, I'll make you my partner.
And we take it down to the Bible guy.
He said, we hit the fundamentalists.
And we show them first English Bible.
We hit the anti-papist thing.
He said, you know, we go into the whole thing.
Hey, here are you Christians.
Here's the English Bible.
Here's the first one.
This guy died at the stake for it.
He said, three to five grand a pop.
I said, easy.
So this half a million dollar book is 3.3, 3.4 million overnight.
And he's serious.
So I finished my salad, because I don't eat a salad, and I drink their wine.
Who was this guy?
I'll name Nick later, because I can't prove this.
This was in the Midwest.
And I said to him,
I said, first of all, it's not we.
I said, I want nothing to do with this.
And I said, and secondly, you're not going to do it.
He said, why?
I said, I'd sure hate for the art critic, the New York Times, the Chicago Tribune, and the LA Times get a hold of this.
I said, I want to go on record saying I won't be the one to call it.
And I said, I won't be the one to point the finger.
I said, I want to go on record sync.
I won't do it.
He said, well, then you feel that there's going to be a problem.
And I said, yes, and you do too.
Or you wouldn't have me here dinner serving expensive wine and salad.
You wouldn't do this.
And I said, you've got a problem.
This book is too well known.
It's therefore radioactive.
And if you're stupid enough to break it apart... Wait a minute.
I mean, is this... If it's well known, it's radioactive.
Yeah, but I mean, was the Pobinots okay on it?
Oh, yeah, it was clear.
It was a clear... Yeah, a title to it.
Oh, yeah, there was a clear title.
I mean, the title was irrelevant to these guys.
Okay?
I mean, we're talking about whether the book is prestigious enough or not
that they can get away without notoriety.
But it wasn't in bad shape.
No, it was perfect.
Well, the only thing, the only thing that makes it radioactive was the potential reaction.
That's what I meant.
I said, you know, and they bounced off.
He said, so you, you know, and if somebody is willing to withstand the criticism, they can just say, I'm going to make it happen.
He said, well, but they can't.
They can't stand the criticism.
That's the point.
They can't do it.
Because that kind of criticism spills over to their other business activities.
I like this gentleman that you mentioned, Tinscher.
Is that his name?
Yeah.
But he keeps his name clean, see.
He can't afford to be associated with something where that's happening because some of the people he deals with won't have anything to do with you.
And so in the case of the Tyndale, now you're going to have religious groups, no matter what his reason was.
So I went through the whole list of people who are going to come in on this.
And I said, the book is radioactive.
It's too well known.
Leave it alone.
I said, sell it off.
find a seminary, and I found a seminary for him, and he sold it off and made a huge profit.
Then, a year later, he walks in.
He said, did you see the Sotheby's auction?
I said, no, why?
He said, they sold a 10-delvety for $1.3 million.
I said, so?
He said, well, if I'd held on to it, I said, you can't hold on to it.
well you don't know what that bible might have had that his did to you know the burland shakespeare sells for six million dollars yeah but and then the second folio goes for half a million and fred bass says well i've got a second folio but maybe that means it's now worth 150 this this was a this was a very good it doesn't necessarily mean that copy of this the leaves were pristine and uh so he knew he knew that he shouldn't do it he knew he wasn't going to do it
working to dinner.
And what I did is do this, pushing.
And that was it.
And he didn't argue.
And within a week, the book was sold to somebody who did it.
And he got a nice number.
He made a nice profit.
He paid $4 million on it.
I mean, that's not a bad report.
How much did he make?
$4 million.
Sold for $750.
Nothing.
But see, that isn't as much as $4 million, Nick.
Nick, you have to understand.
If you have $4 million, you're going to have to work for that $4 million.
You're going to have to work them up page by page, too.
Not really.
I mean, some books.
Now, the Bockevel thing, the Hildenseiners backfired on it because they paid so much money for the book, and the books believe they're selling.
And I've had a little bit to do with that, too.
That was originally in the...
That's the one that was in the getty, right?
That was the one I had here, those leaves I had here.
I'm trying to remember, did one of those go to our English professor?
Yeah, I got one of the leaves.
and sold it because I know where it's at.
See, I'm doing the census of who owns these as much as I can.
Anyway, Nick, there's many more stories.
I will be happy to work with you on this.
You're a great author.
and you're certainly a person who can tell it.
This would be a pretty good story to... Ray's heard all this to a great degree.
How long have you been collecting?
30 years.
How I got started, I was a college student, watched the kind of gradual part,
in the student commons at 10 bucks a leaf.
And I used a year's worth of food.
The check is on me.
Did somebody pick up the check?
No, she picked it up.
And I started there, and then over the years,
I collected pieces here and there.
I had to get to the top.
Yeah, but did you start, I mean, was it the breaks, the broken books?
The broken books, I got my first lease from a guy who was breaking a book for ten bucks a week.
From the beginning, because of my love of history and my love of books, I felt almost a violence down to that.
So what you're collecting interest in has been focused at this time?
opposing this, my whole collecting interest has been preservation, keep grabbing, preserving love of books.
I mean, it's not just narrow.
And I've done more collecting and preservation than I've been able to do the scholarship.
If I had my way, I'd lock my house door, unplug the phone, and spend a year just working with my lease.
I don't even have a catalog.
I was telling Ray I started to do a catalog because I had no idea of the number of lease I have, and it's getting huge.
I mean, I had no idea.
But these are lease largely from broken books, though, right?
Some of them were from broken books, contemporary, some of them from broken books.
Three centuries ago, I have entire books.
I mean, I've got a book, I've got not only a printed book of ours, I have a very beautiful high renaissance book of ours.
I have a Missal, the woman's Dominican Brewery, I've got Cistercen printed, Typhenol.
So you're really collecting things while at the same time you're crusading against the practice that makes this kind of collectible possible.
Is that right?
Right, right.
But my objective of collecting is not to go,
See, one of the great things about your book, my student lecture, is you capture the psychology so beautifully.
I mean, it is marvelously told.
And I recommend your book, and I give your book as copies by students.
And I'll have students come back when I do seminars, and I'll say, read that thing, read this chapter, read that chapter.
The stories, the stories of the eccentric people, the extent they will do, they'll climb up an elevator shaft.
this is the mentality of the people i deal with and um of course i've been involved too with authenticating stolen leaves like the vatican leaves the melicoes thing where he went into the vatican library and stole the leaves he was from ohio state that's right yeah and the way he did it he went in in july he first of all
Professor Melikos is one of the most personal people you meet.
Yeah, I've heard that.
Yeah, and I mean a bull crapper from day one, a charmer.
And he became very good friends with Father Boyle.
Father Boyle's in this book will be a greater extent in the next book.
And they became best of buds.
So he'd let Melikos in there in July when the Vatican libraries closed for maintenance.
Melikos would sit there then with a penknife
Open a leaf, and you go like this.
Now, here's what happened.
I get a call at 2 a.m.
in the morning by one of the top people.
Did you know this story?
I followed it, but yeah, go ahead.
So anyway, I get a call, and he says, you've got to come.
I says, 2 in the morning, damn it.
Bruce, bring me.
He says, Bruce, I said, you've got to get up.
You've got to get up there.
So your house on fire, do you want me to help you?
He goes, oh, get up here.
Get up here, damn it.
I've been up for three days.
Get up here.
So Bruce, it's 2 in the morning.
I said, get up here.
I said, put the coffee on, and I get up there on Easter.
I said, Bruce, what happened?
He said, come here, I want you to show me.
I want you to tell me something.
His son, Matt, is there.
And they're both standing there, both of them pale.
He said, what do you think of this?
And there is a large leaf, beautiful, high renaissance illumination of an agriculture tree that looked like this, Nick.
And I said, he said, what do you think of us?
I said, who in the hell did this?
And he said, what else do you think about?
I said, Bruce, there's a problem here.
No one does this to a leaf.
And this is how it was presented.
He said, yeah, it was presented for me to sell.
The guy wants $400,000 for him.
I said, well, it's worth that.
And I said, you know what it is?
He said, Jim Merrill authenticated it this afternoon.
This is a large, beautiful,
illumination from a treatise on agriculture.
And this is Petrarch's describing.
And he cut right through it.
And I said, and by the way, it was in the Vatican Museum, a Vatican library in, trying to think of the dates.
And he said,
We have the catalog.
No, no, thank you.
We have the catalog to it.
And he said, here it is.
I said, what do you need me here for?
You've got a problem.
This is a highly stolen leaf.
He said, what do we do?
I said, well, you know what we're going to do.
First of all, we're going to call the FBI.
And we actually called customs because it was a law that's fairly new on importation of stolen antiquities.
Well, I mean, did you know it was the Vatican straight away?
Right away, he calls the Vatican, talks to Father Boyle.
And the Vatican is going all, they're going berserk.
And then all at once, he said, well, check your stacks, here it is, this, this, this.
All at once, they call him back in daylight and say, forget about it.
Put it in the mail, send it to us.
And he goes, whoa, whoa, wait a minute, what's going on?
Well, we knew what's going on.
They checked their stacks.
they check where dr malikos has been and everything's missing i mean the guy there was even remnants of the leaf i mean just kind of and so boyle covered up now boyle wasn't responsible no poor man he cardinal
The guy he worked for.
And this guy is an old guard, prince of the church.
The cardinal forced Boyle for that.
Boyle would not have done that.
Boyle was known for opening the Vatican Library.
The scholars were for being proactive.
I think he was an Irish Benedictine, wasn't he?
Wonderful guy.
He had been a very trusting, loving man.
No, he's Irish.
He was at the Pontifical Institute in Canada for about 20 years.
And he went from there to the Vatican Library.
And Mellon Post and him were friends.
And he gets this order, and he's totally in communion.
So Customs comes in.
we give them the story they got patience and fortitude just while you're talking i'll show you something there's a picture of it well i took it yeah i interviewed you took it yeah i interviewed um anyway this goes a step further um the father boils is just send it back
Forget it.
And we said, no, we're not sending anything back.
I said, this has gone too far.
We've contacted U.S.
authorities.
No, you don't.
And we're contacting Liverpool.
And we're going to contact the Italian authorities.
He was such a trusting guy.
He said, the Vatican is a sovereign state.
And he said, we will not cooperate with U.S.
authorities.
By the way, later.
So that was him.
Poor man.
And there's a long footnote on him.
And I'll be writing about him in the next book.
And so within a week, we get the word back that the Vatican will not cooperate with any U.S.
authorities.
They will not engage him.
So he said, now we start bringing him.
Melanchol runs off and hires one of the top criminal attorneys in Columbus, which is in chief.
Now I start finding out a lot about this guy.
This guy's got a house full of art.
And he invites people in.
And people are allowed to photograph this art.
Now, you've got to understand in his books,
that this isn't normal okay this is not normal behavior and and so i said you know bruce do you have some of those photographs we get some photographs customs comes in they do an investigation vatican emits is theirs there's documentary crews but they won't do anything so
Then they get into an issue of bringing experts over.
His attorney contacts these European experts and says, oh, by the way, back in 1978, we did a research.
You got involved in a book that had a dubious provenance.
Who's saying this now?
His attorney.
So when you come over here to the U.S.,
to testify, that is going to go to the heart of public testimony about your credentials.
So all over Europe, they said, we're not coming over.
We're not going to make anything.
Jim Merrill, who authenticated this at Princeton, and very much against any of this, here's where it goes a step further.
Boyle then issues a statement under orders from Steckler, or Steckler, or whatever they might just name, that the manuscript is only worth $10,000.
Now, see, that affects U.S.
sentencing guidelines.
Excuse me.
This guy just issued a statement.
This thing's only worth 10 grand.
It's worth half a million.
Easy.
So I'm giving a speech that night.
And I said, ladies and gentlemen, I have here a fact to tell me a story.
Dressed to Father Boy of the Vatican Library.
I am offering Holy Mother of the Church, St.
Nicholas of Valona, which is worth $25,000.
You've seen St.
Nicholas.
In return,
for the Petrarch manuscript.
And please, will the Church keep the rest of the value as a donation and an offering of my goodwill?
I said, I want no thank you and the whole bit.
And they were laughing, and I faxed it to the Vatican.
Not a word.
So anyway, they take this thing in.
Excuse me, I'm killing this.
Anyway, they take this thing in to the Vatican.
The FBI takes it in, all right?
And they said, well, you know, this guy's, here was his argument.
You know what his argument was, Nick?
He got mixed up in my papers.
Well, how'd he get out of the book?
Did this guy do this any time, by the way?
Well, he did, eventually.
But he won.
He's 65, 66, 67.
So then we started doing a check on this guy.
This guy had access to every major library in Europe.
Everyone.
In minor monasteries, priories.
The only one who kept an eye on him was the English.
They kept an eye on him.
He didn't touch them.
So we started doing some background check on this guy.
Then they sent out photographs from his house of these large manuscripts.
And one of his specialties, Bellicose, was the Codex, the Justinian Codex.
And there was, he did a book on Justinian Codex.
It was a horrible book, but Cardinal Steckler had his name in it.
There was a rash.
of sales of Justinian Kodai on the market over a 10-year period.
I went back, an unusual moment.
So I started to look at who was the hawkers at Sotheby's Christie's, Anonymous, some little interior decorating house in Pittsburgh, you know, been in business five years.
How did those get through places like that?
Oh, Nick will tell you that.
Do this, do this.
I didn't do it.
Okay.
Well, we assume that every work offered to us... No, not blatant.
No, they're not blatant.
Because they're libel if it's stolen.
They issue all sorts of disclaimers.
So what happened was... You have to have clear title to it, generally speaking.
Well, but what is clear title?
The documentary trail in some of these is non-existent.
So what comes out is we send out... Bruce sends out...
to different scholars, pictures of some cobalt.
A researcher at the Morgan Library notices one of them, and identifies it as belonging to the cathedral in Toledo, Spain.
So she contacts it, and sure enough, contact the cathedral.
In 1970, there it is in the catalog, and in 1973, Mellon Post was there.
Now, all hell breaks loose.
What was missing from Toledo, Spain?
Two very large illuminated... Two leaves?
Three.
There were still leaves from that.
But didn't you just check the books that he signed out?
Don't you have to sign out everything?
You're supposed to, but do they?
No.
I mean, people were trying, people were running, Nick, to cover themselves.
Now, he was just left alone.
No, he was left alone.
Nick, he brought in a briefcase every day.
Don't they know the books that he asked to see?
Sure, sure.
That's why they called back within a day or two and went nuts.
Because they went over the things that he had looked at.
Well, they only had to open one.
and find out that half of it's probably gone.
So the Spanish were contacted, and they went berserk.
They wanted his body.
And so U.S.
Customs came in with a search warrant, and by the way, his attorney said, here's the one you want, and by the way, here's three more.
Well, the Spanish are going nuts.
They want him.
They're going to put him in a Spanish prison from which he'll never come out.
He goes to trial.
He's elderly.
He gets all, you know, he's sick.
His wife's sick.
The judge has been sensing on it.
She gets so many letters from art historians
and library people saying the damage this guy has done.
She sent him away, I think it was for 18 months.
I've got all the documents.
Mellencos was originally a Lutheranian immigrant, supposedly.
Where was the trombus?
The what?
Where was his trombus?
Columbus.
The last couple of years, last Friday?
By 1996, yeah.
I've got a whole file on it you can have, including original articles from magazines and everything that did interviews with him.
And you can start from there.
We're here in Worcester, right?
Yeah, I live in Worcester.
How far is that from here?
It's not by the Crow, unfortunately.
It's about an hour and a half other ways.
But at any rate, some melancholy goes to the camp.
Then the real question is, what else is missing, which has never got to the bottom of?
But he'd been all over the place.
He'd been all over these libraries.
And Father Boyle, I understood as a result of this, and I don't know this is the case.
You know him.
retired.
Well, he was forced out.
Well, that was part of it.
This was it, and the idea, and really, what we really did him in was that woman from California, also at the Artists of the Cardinal, to sell the rights to the digitization of the stuff.
And that's really the thing.
It was a huge piece in The New Yorker.
It was all one-sided.
He got once blamed, and he took the hit.
Read the long footnote that I have on him in here.
He's a decent guy.
I talked to him on the phone when I sent the fax.
I called him up, and they put him on, which was surprised.
And I said, Father, you got to receive my fax.
And he said, yes, I did.
I said, Father, I meant it.
I said, with all due respect, if you really feel this way, I will not only give you St.
Nicholas of Bologna, which is a very rare miniature, 12th century.
I will give you some other things.
He said, we don't need it.
I said, well, I know you don't need it.
I said, but would you accept my offering?
He said, no.
I said, well, I understand, Father.
I just wanted to make sure.
But he seemed very upset.
You could tell he was under tremendous pressure.
He was under pressure.
He died a very broken man.
We need to get you to do this.
I'm sorry.
No, no, don't be sorry.
It's Robin here in Tucson.
Ask me if I wouldn't do it after the binding.
I have to, what's been fun, like, being involved with, say, you know, something about exhibition.
There are chairs that are emblematic.
Every little inch, you know, meant something, you know.
And this was like a kitchen and a playroom or something or other.
Closed it up, and then, of course, did the two rooms together.
You just do it.
You think... The house is a museum, actually, isn't it?
Yeah, well, everything has...
significance.
All of this I think is a joy.
The Bible and art, in about the 30s, about 28 to 30s, and what happened was I began to see Pater Bear, and of course Pater Bear is just pasty.
What happened was they realized
that the ancients had done this with just crushed glass that was put in rough kind of a thing in Paris, you see.
So therefore, it's very, yes, you see.
So that's, for example, when we had this, which, so therefore, when I did
They change your mind to do sports, you know, or use that kind of thing, you know.
All right, we'll just go through here.
Well, I want to make sure, the reason I kept this place, I thought, oh, well, I have a place.
But here we have some of the grants of Phillips, you see.
And I peeked in the window here.
You say, how is it happening in the window?
I picked in the window, and I said, great.
Of course, I thought it was argument, you know, but of course, this is the kind of thing.
You've got a Columbus letter?
Yes.
I've got it put away.
Right, that's pretty good.
We're in the bathroom now.
Yes, but look, you see, yeah.
Where was I going to put it?
These were all of the honorable books, you see.
So therefore, that's the kind of thing, like all of these things, you see.
I like the fact that you still keep some towels in the bathroom.
And I purposely do this so people can go away.
I won't take long, Sam, I promise.
Come back sometime.
Yeah.
Bring your daughter, maybe.
My daughter or my wife.
Well, yeah, it doesn't matter.
I'd love to bring that.
Oh, let me get that for you.
One day, Sam, you should do books that I have Russian.
That's rather interesting.
Have you ever thought of doing a catalog of your collection?
I've never seen anything like this.
I'm dazzled.
I can only spend a little bit of time here.
I knew Eddie.
I interviewed him.
Lovely man.
He was a wonderful man.
Of course, very sweet.
He was unintelligent.
He did feel good.
And he had that background, you know.
He had the Rosenbach connection.
Yeah, so I did some nice... Oh, the Athenaeum.
At the Athenaeum, which they asked me to do.
It was very unusual.
Women weren't doing anything without books.
I didn't realize it was as if they were treating me as if I had come out of the woodwork.
Being a self-student, it didn't bother me.
I used... and she spent five minutes
They had to pull away from Tom, $55,000.
So everybody's going to, you know, enjoy what you want.
But that, you know, the point is to make people feel as if they knew about it, but you're just recalling it to them, right?
Nouveau and saying, oh, well, you know this piece because of, you know.
And the more I'm involved in what you were trying to do.
But you're still succeeding, though.
That's right.
Yeah, yeah.
prompting some kind of a... As long as you've been doing this, you know, and you're a highlight.
I'm the only person who I've ever written for every issue, by the way.
I was in every issue.
You're going to like this new book, because a lot of those articles... Yeah, well, let me do a little bit, because I've done some things, you know, I've done those things, but I know Dime.
And I used to say to him at first, I said, you know, Mabel, I don't know whether... I practically carried on my back the cases, the books.
If you don't do it that way, don't do it at all.
All that mattered gave me the backing mentally.
For example, what I'm writing now, and I said, you know, this is awfully hard.
It's not going to be a necessary piece, but it's going to be...
Do you mind if I contact you later?
I'd love to come back and see you.
I hope Sam would help me get in touch.
I'd like to come back and spend some time with you and you do this properly.
I'd like to write about you.
I'll tell you when I started, you know, back at the time of... You turned off the light bulb?
Yes, you went to... She is living with books.
You're living with more than books.
You're living with history.
You're living with art.
You're living with everything.
It's like yesterday, to meet their people in the country, never mind anything, you've done at least a half a dozen out of my, well, I thought about a dozen.
Well, in fact, half a dozen out of my, well, I thought about a dozen.
Oh, pardon me, it's a hard situation.
And before you know it, your life is gone.
You have to like what you're doing.
But you don't, that's the fun of it.
But you did the Christopher Columbus little museum.
And what I did was help them to restore.
What is that?
That's right off Madeira.
Wow, wonderful.
But it all has some kind of significance.
What did you want them to say?
I put some things in the... I was working on it because I put those books...
You couldn't do old.
No, not yet.
You're young yet.
See, and when you learn about color printing and you read such beautiful, beautiful books.
So I have all of those one special course of the color printing.
Well, now, next time.
These are the color printing books.
To show the fore-edge books.
You saw.
I have to take, I've got the fore-edge here.
I want to come, I want to come back.
So on the next trip, there's something to look forward to the next time.
And, uh, but, uh, I'll pick with one thing so that makes you be interested.
I want to come back.
To have the eyes to see.
Now, Salvador, but a, um,
party for them in an exhibition.
What's the point of having eyes if you don't see?
And that's the point.
And many people used to the same things, but they really, everything.
Now I'm going to show you a special role.
A Roman soccer player, I used it for these.
And then I came across, it was Picasso's medal.
And I guess he used this as a form.
Afterwards, he had it in a place in Spain.
And this kind of mode would be cool.
You know, these are the fun things.
Can we have our last trip go to Europe?
see this is where I was at from the start but that's Bartolo's because again the color printing you see I'm conscious of where they belong just really look like real fabulous that's a when you get around to it about color printing things
Out here, I'm particularly interested in seeing the color printing, you see.
Who was a very odd individual, four years old.
She was eating chicken in the new book.
No, in the first book, I'm sorry.
Did you meet him?
Oh, pardon me, but aren't you afraid that the sun is going to hurt some of these princes?
No, I'm on to his museum.
No, I haven't, no.
Go out to his museum.
Early.
Well, this is Pennsylvania she's talking about.
Oh, Pennsylvania, yeah.
And, uh, something real.
It's very interesting.
If you're interested in learning something, if you see something new.
Papillon, butterflies?
Yeah, yeah.
Congratulations, you should really be very proud.
I guess I...
I should.
We found a very difficult thing, and I don't know why other people, the reading of writing is a very long kind of a thing, how the manuscripts, that we can identify,
as having done by stencils instead of just being done by hand.
So you have a mind that is so inquisitive.
Yeah, that's the point.
And you have to be careful because I'm writing and I want to get it done and do a research.
That's the joy of this.
Yeah, that's the joy.
That's the joy of collecting.
Yeah, that's, if you, if you talk to people to not to underestimate and have them do simple things, you know.
And also to make them understand, they started to collect to something that had sort of an imprint of an artist or a good author.
That's going to be... It's Dutch Gaelic.
It was the first word here.
And I wanted to see this special event, and he said, fine.
He took me out, and it was an open space, like, things were, every one of the books were, was a new book, had to do with cowboys or Indians.
But this is the focus out here.
Yeah, but that, but the point is this, at first I was a little, and I said, you know what, I said,
And someday, I who's foolish, or you that's foolish, or Sam that's foolish, if you think that you only have to get things out of the past, relate to it, because as far as I'm concerned, 500 years is like nothing, but to me, it's the people.
And I think of it that a fool like me, or an interested man like you, or the fact that they were lucky enough to have you, Sam,
that we have all the little things that we attach to.
And that's what's wonderful about it.
But not a matter of smug.
Some people make much to see an old book or something.
But to me, the fact that I've attached myself to that, what he's been doing, now I have been calling all over
The world documentation on certain artists, I refuse to finish that book unless I get their dates.
Now, can I ask you a question?
Yes.
Do I have your permission for Sam to give me your telephone number and your address and how to get in touch with you?
I certainly would never ask him without your permission.
I mean, I'd love to get in touch with you.
Sam looks like low-key.
He looks like low-key.
But he's very excited of everything you have done.
But no, really.
I feel good.
I found your publication.
It wasn't something that was around.
I thought about it yesterday.
I thought, how did I find your publication?
Speaking to James Tannis, and I said, James, you know about it.
Yeah.
It wasn't around that long, and then it just folded.
No.
But you haven't read my first book, Gentle Madness, yet?
Well, we'll take care of that.
I'm going to get some copies.
In fact, I'll send some copies to you by mail.
You don't have to worry about her getting a copy.
It has been a pleasure for me, for Sam, to bring somebody here like yourself, and the fact that just to stimulate somebody.
Now, when you go to speak, you're going to have to draw a diary.
But on the other hand... Don't scare me.
No, but on the other hand, if you realize that somebody has to start somewhere, and somebody has to document the things and just start them at some place, you know?
So, you know, before us and after us.
I did some of these shiny things.
But see, actually, a clergy, that isn't the word they use, but he was out of the monastery.
Because somebody must have backed him, the church must have backed him, all over doing things as far as... And who is he again?
So I can check him out.
I'll just read the description.
So that's Kershler, K-I-I.
You've got a Greek name, Athanasius.
Yeah.
The first illustrated account of China with sections on Japan and India, Kersher, K-I-R-C-H-E-R, was a Jesuit polymath who also wrote an Egyptian hieroglyphics, astronomy, plants in China.
Are these descriptions from some of your exhibitions?
Are these descriptions?
I don't know how to put that back, so I'm just going to leave that there.
Well, Sam, maybe we ought to be getting going.